Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, for a long time I've wanted to have this distinguished
man on our program, not to meet you because he has met and most of you in Tennessee will
be listening and watching this program know him.
Our Senate, our majority leader of the United States Senate, Senator Lyndon B. Johnson.
Lyndon, it certainly is good to have you on program.
I'm happy to introduce you to my friends in Tennessee.
Yes, I appreciate this courtesy.
I've enjoyed serving with you very much for ten years in the house and not twelve years
in the Senate.
And Texas owes so much to Tennessee that I always take every opportunity that I can to
visit with the people of your great state.
You certainly do.
You've been to see us often.
You've always supported projects and we're interested in such as the TVA and everything
that comes up in the Senate affecting Tennessee's welfare.
You've always been far.
I could take all of this program, ladies and gentlemen, talking about the outstanding
record of Senator Lyndon Johnson, but he is accomplished of his intelligence, his ability,
his courage.
I think it's the first to say that he is a great majority leader.
He has made an outstanding record.
He has accomplished much during his years.
He has given the party fine leadership in the United States Senate.
He is one of America's great leaders.
I know that he wouldn't want me to say this because this is not a political occasion, but
he may be the Democratic nominee.
He may be the next president of the United States and he will occupy, worthily and keepably
any office to which he may be selected.
So now Lyndon, the very progressive and very responsible program we came into the session
by first considering the clean elections bill and modernizing all the election machinery
for the first time since 1928.
In addition, we passed the Constitutional Amendment to giving the right of franchise district
bill.
Then we considered the most comprehensive educational bill that the Commerce has ever acted
upon, and then we presented it for some time.
We passed a bill that would give material aid to raising salaries of our teachers and
also provide a considerable aid for additional classroom construction in connection with our
schools without any federal control.
Well, that was a great legislative accomplishment of which you were largely responsible and
not people in Tennessee.
A great part of them are very much interested in this bill.
Well, I, in the last few weeks, I spent some time with Chancellor Addenar and Prime Minister
MacMillan and both of these great leaders of great countries told me that they thought
the most important nation facing the free world today was out of education and we just
can't be second best in that.
We then spent two months considering the civil rights bill and while we didn't pass the
bill, satisfied everybody, every conceivable issue that could be presented in connection
that bill was discussed, pro and con, fairly reasonably intelligently, and the Senate
finally acted by passing the bill 82 to 18.
We have passed a mind-take.
So, I'd say a voting right bill to assure the right of everybody ever qualified citizens
to be able to vote.
That is right and it does not make a conquered province out of the South and we hope that there's
nothing punitive in it and I believe under the circumstances it was the most reasonable
and fair bill at the heart of which was voting rights that could have been passed and if
no action had been taken, I'm fearful that more extreme measures would have been passed
at other times.
But I you go on, Lyndon, what are the plans for the future?
When do you think we'll get away from Washington?
I think it will get out of here just before the convention.
We have a good housing bill, we'll have to pass, medical care bill, we'll have to pass,
social security, amendments, we'll have to pass, a farm bill that we'll act upon but I
believe we'll be able to do all those things and still adjourn prior to the convention.
Well, thank you very much, Lyndon Johnson and ladies and gentlemen, you have a...
Seeing and been listening to a lot of America's and our nation's great leaders and great men,
thank you very much Lyndon.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we all know that the defense of our country
and it's offensive, we should ever, unportion, get into a war, it depends to a considerable
extent upon missiles, what kind of missiles we have and the progress that we are making
in them.
I learned as a member of the Armed Services Committee when I was a member that Lieutenant
Colonel, I mean Colonel Maurice Buck Rogers, Buck and Colonel Bill Smith were about the
most informative people on the subject of Army missiles that we have in our services
and they are very kind and consented to come and be with us today.
Colonel Smith, your specialty I believe is the surface-to-surface missiles, is that right?
That is correct, sir, I am in the surface-to-surface missile business which is an extension
of field artillery.
These are some of the surface-to-surface missiles here that you have and this is the
missile.
What is this one?
That is the honest John.
Honest John, and how about the one back here?
That is the longest-range Army missile, the Redstone.
May I down at Huntsville, Alabama, I do believe you.
Well, how do you think we are getting along in our surface-to-surface missiles?
We feel so that we have a very fine family of surface-to-surface missiles in existence
and we feel that even better developments are coming along.
Of course, the missiles which are a far-off those controlled by the Army, namely the tactical
missiles.
Those missiles which must move and be in constant support of the field Army.
You mean once you care right along with like tanks and guns and things of that sort?
That is correct.
They must be of high mobility.
And how about a solid fuel propellant?
Is that in the program?
Is that more mobile than that?
That is, sir, as a matter of fact, these two missiles here both have solid propellant.
And it is a goal in which we strive.
The replacement missiles for the corporal, namely the sergeant and the replacement for the
Redstone, the purging, will have solid propellant.
We like solid propellant because it makes it much easier to handle than the field.
It gives the opportunity of handing the soldier a round of ammunition just almost as simple
as a rifle bullet.
Well, that's fine.
I'll be back with you in a minute, Colonel Bill Smith.
Colonel Buck Rogers, what is your specialty?
My specialty, sir, is surface to air missiles.
In other words, surface to strike something in the air.
Yes, sir.
The right is barring from the ground to strike an interceptor or an air to surface missile
and destroy it.
It might be carrying weapons to work our country.
Now, that's a father defense of our country against tax by enemy planes.
That is correct.
Now, what are our air to surface missiles?
What are these missiles we have here?
Well, the surface to air missiles that we show here are the Nike AJAX, which went on
sight in the defense of the continental United States in 1953.
They improved the Nike Hercules, which went on sight in June 1958.
Well, we've heard a whole lot about in some missile fields that we got behind the Soviet
Union and we're trying to catch up.
But how about in the surface to air missiles?
How do you think we stand?
I think that we have the finest surface to air missiles in the world today.
And our program is going ahead.
Good.
Yes, sir.
We've heard a lot of doubt since the unfortunate U2 incident over which Mr. Kruishoff is
trying to make so much propaganda that some skepticism as to whether they were able to
shoot down a plane at 65,000 feet of, what would be our capabilities in connection with
it, no matter of that kind?
Well, Senator, we have demonstrated in the firing that flight stands proving ground the capability
of hitting a target at an altitude of 73,000 feet, flying at a speed of 2100 miles per hour.
Now, according to the newspaper reports, this is greater than a speed which the U2 is flying.
Time, of course, they don't know the facts about the U2 and what they may never know, but
anyway, we do have that time of capability.
Yes, sir.
As a matter of fact, we can fire to an altitude greater than 100,000 feet.
Well, we're mighty proud of the fact that so much of the development and work in connection
with the surface to surface missiles has been done.
It hunts well our balance with a lot of activities and tonnesty of plants as you so well know
Colonel Smith.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can be proud of the activities of our defense
department in these two areas.
And we're certainly grateful to you, Colonel Rogers and Colonel Smith, for coming and being
with us today.
That's all until next week at this time.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I know that you've all been following very
closely the President, a White House conference on children and youth, which is being held here
in Washington this week.
Today in the studio, we have some of the distinguished delegates from Tennessee to this most important
conference for the youth of our nation.
And I will introduce people who are here from my right to the left.
Dr. Roy Baker, who is the Commissioner of Mental Health in the State of Tennessee with
us and very important in this conference.
Next on my right is now the delegate to the conference.
She has been following very closely in the newspaper on television and the radio of my
wife Nancy.
What do you think about the conference, Nancy?
Well, I'm tremendously interested.
I'm convinced from all I've had that the mother's place is in the home.
Keep the children busy.
I find something for you.
You can take a very good experience with four of them.
Great experience.
And on my left is a professor of Poop-Dar of Central High School at Chattanooga, who has
been a student of these problems for a long, long time.
It's good to have you with us at Poop.
Thank you.
Dr. Raymond Ballister of Nashville, who is one of the managers of the Tennessee Parent
Teachers Association.
As both of you start with you, well, Poop, tell us what this conference is all about.
On the center of 7,000 people here, some children.
Senator, there are approximately 7,000 delegates from the different states and 500 from foreign
countries.
Each day, there are five assemblies.
Theme assemblies held, 18 forums and 210 workshops daily.
Each person participates in each one of them.
I understand that Dr. Ballister, you have your large meetings in the morning and then
division meetings in the afternoon.
It represents two or three hundred conferences going on at the same time as what it amounts
to that several small groups get together and discuss specific topics after having received
some stimulation and background information from the general session.
Now we had a great conference like this in 1950 and this is the one following that conference
of 1960.
Dr. Baker, the president addressed the first meeting of the conference, didn't he?
Yes, he did.
Tell us about it.
You're a question of his speech.
Very inspiring talk, I think.
This was very well attended, of course, being the first session on Sunday night.
And I think that the president's talk set the tone for the whole conference, really.
Yes, it was.
It was a splendid dress that he made and Mr. Dyer, how many are here from Tennessee?
I think I've never seen a better cross section of more splendid people.
Senator, I believe we have approximately one hundred delegates from the state of Tennessee.
I believe 64 have been appointed by the governor directly and I believe about thirty-five to
forty have been appointed by the various organizations throughout the nation.
And a very large proportion of being young people.
Yes, that's important so they can talk about their problems themselves.
Well, let me ask, now we are not just talking about opportunities for youth generally and
not just talking about what can be done relative to the three or three and a half percent.
You have to be juvenile, the length of it.
But we are living in a new world, aren't we?
A fast moving world in which all values and I mean, which are methods of yesterday might
not exactly fit today.
Is that right, Dr. Baker?
That's certainly correct.
Changes are just moving at such a terrific pace.
It's hard for youth to know which values to embrace.
Which values adults should pass on.
Adults don't know either.
Well Nancy, what do you think about in the summertime about keeping kids busy?
Is that so?
Well, I think it's terribly important.
How do you do it?
Well, they have cats.
I think cats are tremendously helpful.
And they are so much interesting.
We found a very good thing when David wanted to get some money that we let him collect
all the newspapers and take him down to the junk dealer and sell them.
That certainly keeps him very, very busy.
Well, there are so many things that we could talk about, but I know out of this great conference
will come much good work with recommendations for legislation, increased interest back
home and much good for our nation will be the result of this White House conference
on youth.
Thank you very much, Nancy and gentlemen, for being with me.
That's all for now.
Goodbye, and we'll next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
This is a very exciting week in Washington because this is a cherry blossom week.
The Tennessee State Society of Washington, its president and officers and members,
chose the Tennessee cherry blossom princess who is with us today.
Mr. Joanna Evans of Smithville, Tennessee.
It certainly is wonderful to have you with us, Joanna.
And we also honored in having her distinguished father, Congressman Joe Evans of a fourth
congressional district who has been serving in the House of Representatives for almost
14 years with great honor and dignity.
Well, thank you, Ed.
It's nice to be here and to bring Joanna along.
I certainly appreciate you bringing.
But Joanna, tell us about the, you got a Vanderbilt out there, but you don't.
And I hear you're a very outstanding student.
She made wonderful grades and can we prove it by you, Joe.
She's always made better grades than me.
Joanna, you're a junior at Vanderbilt.
Now, here you're president of the E.O.P.I.S.
authority for next year.
I have a daughter at Vanderbilt and how about Linda?
I know you don't know.
She's now a little sister.
Well, she's not proud of you.
Well, friends, when Mr. Joanna Evans came to Washington, on Sunday nights, he was met by the
president of the Tennessee State Society, a large group of Tennesseans, in honor of our
beautiful charming cherry blossom princess, Tennessee.
Now, tell us about the probals from this week, Joanna.
Well, the meeting was the most spectacular.
At the time, I wasn't very charming.
I had rained in the face and everybody had umbrellas and cameras were all over.
And the next day, we met our escorts through the Univac machine.
Yes, I was on the Monday.
On Monday, yes.
And you've been very busy all week.
Oh, very.
And then what happened on Tuesday, Joanna?
Tuesday, we had some.
I was the official opening of the festival, providing the Japanese stone lanterns out of the
ambassador's shoulder.
About the ambassador of Japan.
And then on Wednesday night, I believe, I choose you.
You had a great ball with all your sword.
Tuesday night, what's the name?
Tennessee State Society's ball of the Tennessee State.
And then the official crowning of the queen is on Friday night.
Friday night.
And I'd explain that if Merritt went exclusively in choosing, I'm sure that Joanna would be the queen of the overall queen of the chairblossom festival, but they've turned a wheel in it.
That's not exactly crazy.
And we hope that the wheel will end in the right place and Joanna will be the national queen.
Then Joanna, you're going back to the national extendable.
Let me run deep into the water board.
I'm a bright.
And Joe, this is a great, great, great week for you and Anne.
Yes, just we're delighted to have Joanna with us.
We are very honored that the society has selected her.
But most of all, we've enjoyed having the week visit with her.
And I understand just smart her, Brent Forlund, may be coming up to.
Well, he always likes to make trips, but he couldn't make this to me.
The society's not to come this time.
We're very sorry that he didn't come.
But Joanna, you have left for a fine student to French too, aren't you?
I'm scared he didn't.
Because you got a fine slice to you?
Yes, 13 summer when we were in France.
These days we're in French family and enjoy it very much.
And what are you going to do this summer, Joanna?
Oh, because they haven't worked this summer.
You mean your father's going to make you work this summer?
What are you going to do working? I'll get the following way.
What are you going to be doing this summer, Joanna?
Well, she has lots of interest.
She likes newspaper work, because she can find a place where she might get a job with a newspaper.
That's what her interests are in writing.
But I suspect you'd be campaigning for me.
Well, Joe, you don't have any opposition.
So, you will need it.